we are revisiting some of our previous
reports from Gaza to give you a sense of
what life was like before this war and
how things have gotten progressively
worse this was 12 years ago this is the
erors crossing it's controlled by Israel
and is one of two civilian access points
in and out of Gaza but the reality is
that these Gates keep most gazin locked
inside for many it's impossible to get
out young people uh have no
jobs no hopes for a movement because the
siege Israel has imposed on Gaza does
not allow people to move
freely there have been five Wars since
Hamas took control of Gaza in 2006 the
one in 2014 the most brutal until now
suya on the border with Israel it is not
recognizable now Israel says it's
targeting armed Fighters and their
underground tunnel network but we see
heartbreak and despair
here gaza's largest hospital is at
breaking point there is unbearable
grief this is a genocide this is a
massacre and I hope that some is being
held accountable for Israeli impunity
has gone so far now that they think they
can do whatever with
whoever fast forward four years these
young men part of a generation who grew
up under the blockade there are no jobs
no opportunities they are stuck
here we get power on peaceful protest
they get their power from rifles and
bullets and cause
amputations Israel's intelligence agency
and the Army warned the Israeli
government that Gaza could explode if
the restrictions
continued we also profiled gaza's best
known
lifeguard when children come to the
beach you feel like they are releasing
the depression they have inside an
Israeli Navy vessel lies in the
background we noticed it using a water
cannon just before we started filming
and what we can only assume was was a
Palestinian fishing boat perhaps getting
too close to the Israeli imposed
invisible border penned in even at
Sea then two years later Israel's
blockade of Gaza is into its 13th year
the water supply is sporadic as is
electricity sanitation is an issue and
there is widespread poverty and
unemployment the United Nations issued a
report 8 years ago predicting that Gaza
would become quote unlivable by 2020
well it is 2020 and still no political
solution in
sight umal reiterates what so many
others have told us too people are fed
up with their
leaders I blame the officials who were
sitting on their chairs and don't care
about us even her Mass doesn't care
about us they're enjoying their good
lives in their homes while our children
can't get food that same year to show a
different picture from Gaza we visited a
St Farm in the very north of the Gaza
Strip where Israeli forces are now
operating Abu sami's family had been
farming this land for
Generations the darkest period in our
lives is after 2006 The Siege is really
tough and it's banned all our movements
it affects every part of our lives and
unfortunately things are getting
worse we tried to get in touch with some
of the people in our reports to find out
where are they now now whether they're
still alive but so far we haven't been
able to find
out Stephanie Decker aljazera
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al
jazer